add release notes v9.0.0 - features part (#20510)
pingcap/docs: releases/release-9.0.0.md

---
title: TiDB 9.0.0 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 9.0.0.
---

# TiDB 9.0.0 Release Notes

<EmailSubscriptionWrapper />

Release date: xx xx, 2025

TiDB version: 9.0.0

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/production-deployment-using-tiup)

9.0.0 introduces the following key features and improvements:

> <table>
> <thead>
>   <tr>
>     <th>Category</th>
>     <th>Feature/Enhancement</th>
>     <th>Description</th>
>   </tr>
> </thead>
> <tbody>
>   <tr>
>    
>   </tr>
> </tbody>
> </table>

Author: ```suggestion
<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Category</th>
    <th>Feature/Enhancement</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>Data Migration</td>
    <td>Support query argument redaction in DM logs</td>
    <td>Introduces an optional <code>redact-info-log</code> parameter to mask query arguments in DM logs, preventing sensitive data from appearing in logs.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Data Migration</td>
    <td>Ensure Lightning compatibility with TiDB <code>sql_require_primary_key=ON</code></td>
    <td>Ensures the internal error-logging tables have primary keys if <code>sql_require_primary_key=ON</code> is enabled in TiDB, avoiding creation failures during data imports.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Data Migration</td>
    <td>Migrated sync-diff-inspector from <code>tidb-tools</code> to <code>tiflow</code> repository</td>
    <td>Consolidates sync-diff-inspector with other data migration and replication tools (DM and TiCDC) in the <code>tiflow</code> repository. Now available via TiUP and a dedicated Docker image.</td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>
```

## Feature details

### Scalability

### Performance

* Support pushing down the following functions to TiFlash [#59317](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59317) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1918-->

    * `TRUNCATE()`

  For more information, see [documentation](/tiflash/tiflash-supported-pushdown-calculations.md).

* Support pushing down the following date functions to TiKV [#59365](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59365) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1837-->

    * `FROM_UNIXTIME()`
    * `TIMESTAMPDIFF()`
    * `UNIX_TIMESTAMP()`

  For more information, see [documentation](/functions-and-operators/expressions-pushed-down.md).

### Reliability

### SQL

### Security

> 

Author: ```suggestion
### Data migration

* Support query argument redaction in DM logs [#11489](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11489) @[db-will] **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--2030-->

    Introduces a new `redact-info-log` parameter, allowing DM to replace sensitive query arguments with `?` placeholders in DM logs. You can enable this feature by setting `redact-info-log = true` in the DM-worker configuration file or passing `--redact-info-log=true` at startup. This change only redacts query arguments (not entire SQL statements) and requires a DM-worker restart to take effect.

    For more information, see [documentation](/dm/dm-worker-configuration-file.md).

* Ensure TiDB Lightning compatibility with TiDB `sql_require_primary_key=ON` [#57479](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57479) @[lance6716] **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--2026-->

    When `sql_require_primary_key=ON` is enabled in TiDB, tables must have a primary key. TiDB Lightning now adds a default primary key to its internal error-logging and conflict-detection tables (`conflict_error_v4`, `type_error_v2`, and `conflict_records_v2`), preventing table-creation failures. If you rely on these internal tables for automation, confirm the new naming and schema changes (primary key added), as scripts referencing older table names might need updates.

* Migrated sync-diff-inspector from `tidb-tools` to `tiflow` repository [#11672](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11672) @[joechenrh] **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--2070-->

    The sync-diff-inspector tool has moved from the old [tidb-tools](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-tools) repository to [tiflow](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow), unifying replication and migration tools (DM, TiCDC, sync-diff-inspector) in one place. 

    For TiDB v9.0.0 and later, you can install sync-diff-inspector via:

    * `tiup install sync-diff-inspector`
    * `docker pull pingcap/sync-diff-inspector:latest`
    * [TiDB Toolkit](/download-ecosystem-tools.md) binary

    The old [tidb-tools repo](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-tools) is now archived. If you previously installed sync-diff-inspector from tidb-tools, switch to TiUP, Docker, or the updated binary.

    For more information, see [documentation](/sync-diff-inspector/sync-diff-inspector-overview.md).
```

## Compatibility changes

> **Note:**
>
> This section provides compatibility changes you need to know when you upgrade from v8.5.0 to the current version (v9.0.0). If you are upgrading from v8.4.0 or earlier versions to the current version, you might also need to check the compatibility changes introduced in intermediate versions.

### Behavior changes

> 

Author: ```suggestion
* TiDB Lightning internal error-logging and conflict-detection tables names changed to `conflict_error_v4`, `type_error_v2`, and `conflict_records_v2`, and now have primary keys. If you rely on these internal tables for automation, confirm the new naming and schema changes [#57479](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57479) @[lance6716]
```

### System variables

| Variable name | Change type | Description |
|--------|------------------------------|------|
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |

### Configuration parameters

| Configuration file or component | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |

> |  |  |  | |

Author: ```suggestion
| DM | [--redact-info-log](/dm/dm-command-line-flags/#--redact-info-log) | Newly added | Controls whether DM replaces sensitive query arguments with ? placeholders in logs. The default value is false. When set to true, query arguments in DM logs are redacted. This parameter only redacts query arguments (not entire SQL statements), and requires a DM-worker restart to take effect. |
```

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Data Migration</td>
    <td>Migrated sync-diff-inspector from <code>tidb-tools</code> to <code>tiflow</code> repository</td>
    <td>Consolidates sync-diff-inspector with other data migration and replication tools (DM and TiCDC) in the <code>tiflow</code> repository. Now available via TiUP and a dedicated Docker image.</td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Feature details

### Scalability

### Performance

* Support pushing down the following functions to TiFlash [#59317](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59317) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1918-->

    * `TRUNCATE()`

  For more information, see [documentation](/tiflash/tiflash-supported-pushdown-calculations.md).

* Support pushing down the following date functions to TiKV [#59365](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59365) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1837-->

    * `FROM_UNIXTIME()`
    * `TIMESTAMPDIFF()`
    * `UNIX_TIMESTAMP()`

  For more information, see [documentation](/functions-and-operators/expressions-pushed-down.md).

### Reliability

### SQL

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Observability

* SQL cross-AZ traffic monitoring [#57543](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57543) @[nolouch](https://github.com/nolouch) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--2021-->

    Deploying TiDB clusters across Availability Zones (AZs) enhances the disaster recovery capability. However, in cloud environments, cross-AZ deployments incur additional network traffic costs. For example, AWS charges for both cross-region and cross-AZ traffic. Therefore, for TiDB clusters running on cloud services, accurately monitoring and analyzing network traffic is essential for cost control.

    Starting from v9.0.0, TiDB records the network traffic generated during SQL processing and distinguishes cross-AZ traffic. TiDB writes this data to the [`statements_summary` table](/statement-summary-tables.md) and [slow query logs](/identify-slow-queries.md). This feature helps you track major data transmission paths within TiDB clusters, analyze the sources of cross-AZ traffic, and better understand and control related costs.

    Note that the current version monitors only SQL query traffic **within the cluster** (between TiDB, TiKV, and TiFlash) and does not include DML or DDL operations. Additionally, the recorded traffic data represents unpacked traffic, which differs from actual physical traffic and  cannot be used directly for network billing.

    For more information, see [documentation](/statement-summary-tables.md#statements_summary-fields-description).
```

### Security

### Data migration

> * Support query argument redaction in DM logs [#11489](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11489) @[db-will] **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--2030-->

Reviewer: @gmhdbjd PTAL

    Introduces a new `redact-info-log` parameter, allowing DM to replace sensitive query arguments with `?` placeholders in DM logs. You can enable this feature by setting `redact-info-log = true` in the DM-worker configuration file or passing `--redact-info-log=true` at startup. This change only redacts query arguments (not entire SQL statements) and requires a DM-worker restart to take effect.

    For more information, see [documentation](/dm/dm-worker-configuration-file.md).

> * Ensure TiDB Lightning compatibility with TiDB `sql_require_primary_key=ON` [#57479](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57479) @[lance6716] **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--2026-->

Reviewer: @OliverS929 PTAL

Reviewer 2: LGTM

    When `sql_require_primary_key=ON` is enabled in TiDB, tables must have a primary key. TiDB Lightning now adds a default primary key to its internal error-logging and conflict-detection tables (`conflict_error_v4`, `type_error_v2`, and `conflict_records_v2`), preventing table-creation failures. If you rely on these internal tables for automation, confirm the new naming and schema changes (primary key added), as scripts referencing older table names might need updates.

> * Migrated sync-diff-inspector from `tidb-tools` to `tiflow` repository [#11672](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11672) @[joechenrh] **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--2070-->

Reviewer: @Benjamin2037 PTAL

Reviewer 3: LGTM

Reviewer 4: LGTM

> * Migrated sync-diff-inspector from `tidb-tools` to `tiflow` repository [#11672](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11672) @[joechenrh] **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--2070-->
> 
>     The sync-diff-inspector tool has moved from the old [tidb-tools](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-tools) repository to [tiflow](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow), unifying replication and migration tools (DM, TiCDC, sync-diff-inspector) in one place. 
> 
>     For TiDB v9.0.0 and later, you can install sync-diff-inspector via:
> 
>     * `tiup install sync-diff-inspector`
>     * `docker pull pingcap/sync-diff-inspector:latest`
>     * [TiDB Toolkit](/download-ecosystem-tools.md) binary
> 
>     The old [tidb-tools repo](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-tools) is now archived. If you previously installed sync-diff-inspector from tidb-tools, switch to TiUP, Docker, or the updated binary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Migrate sync-diff-inspector from `pingcap/tidb-tools` to `pingcap/tiflow` repository [#11672](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11672) @[joechenrh](https://github.com/joechenrh) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--2070-->

    Starting from v9.0.0, the sync-diff-inspector tool is moved from the [`pingcap/tidb-tools`](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-tools) repository to [`pingcap/tiflow`](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow). This change unifies replication and migration tools ([DM](/dm/dm-overview.md), [TiCDC](/ticdc/ticdc-overview.md), and [sync-diff-inspector](/sync-diff-inspector/sync-diff-inspector-overview.md)) into a single repository.

    For TiDB v9.0.0 and later versions, you can install sync-diff-inspector using one of the following methods:

    - TiUP: `tiup install sync-diff-inspector`
    - Docker image: `docker pull pingcap/sync-diff-inspector:latest`
    - Binary package: [TiDB Toolkit](/download-ecosystem-tools.md)

  The [`pingcap/tidb-tools`](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-tools) repository is now archived. If you previously installed sync-diff-inspector from `tidb-tools`, switch to TiUP, Docker, or the TiDB Toolkit.
```

### Behavior changes

* TiDB Lightning internal error-logging and conflict-detection tables names changed to `conflict_error_v4`, `type_error_v2`, and `conflict_records_v2`, and now have primary keys. If you rely on these internal tables for automation, confirm the new naming and schema changes [#57479](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57479) @[lance6716]

### System variables

| Variable name | Change type | Description |
|--------|------------------------------|------|
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |

### Configuration parameters

| Configuration file or component | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |
| DM | [--redact-info-log](/dm/dm-command-line-flags/#--redact-info-log) | Newly added | Controls whether DM replaces sensitive query arguments with ? placeholders in logs. The default value is false. When set to true, query arguments in DM logs are redacted. This parameter only redacts query arguments (not entire SQL statements), and requires a DM-worker restart to take effect. |
|  |  |  | |

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Offline package changes

Starting from v9.0.0, the offline package location of the [sync-diff-inspector](/sync-diff-inspector/sync-diff-inspector-overview.md) tool in the `TiDB-community-toolkit` [binary package](/binary-package.md) is changed from `sync_diff_inspector` to `tiflow-{version}-linux-{arch}.tar.gz`.

```

9.0.0 introduces the following key features and improvements:

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Category</th>
    <th>Feature/Enhancement</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>Data Migration</td>
    <td>Support query argument redaction in DM logs</td>
    <td>Introduces an optional <code>redact-info-log</code> parameter to mask query arguments in DM logs, preventing sensitive data from appearing in logs.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Data Migration</td>
    <td>Ensure Lightning compatibility with TiDB <code>sql_require_primary_key=ON</code></td>
    <td>Ensures the internal error-logging tables have primary keys if <code>sql_require_primary_key=ON</code> is enabled in TiDB, avoiding creation failures during data imports.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Data Migration</td>
    <td>Migrated sync-diff-inspector from <code>tidb-tools</code> to <code>tiflow</code> repository</td>
    <td>Consolidates sync-diff-inspector with other data migration and replication tools (DM and TiCDC) in the <code>tiflow</code> repository. Now available via TiUP and a dedicated Docker image.</td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Feature details

### Scalability

### Performance

> 

Author: ```suggestion

* In scenarios with hundreds of thousands to millions of users, the performance of creating and modifying users has improved by 77 times [#55563](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55563) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao) tw@hfxsd<!--1941-->

    In previous versions, when the number of users in a cluster exceeded 200,000, the QPS for creating and modifying users drops to 1. In certain SaaS environments, if there is a need to create millions of users and periodically update user passwords in bulk, it can take up to 2 days or more, which is unacceptable for some SaaS businesses.

    TiDB v9.0.0 optimizes the performance of these DCL (Data Control Language) operations, allowing 2 million users to be created in just 37 minutes. This greatly enhances the execution performance of DCL statements and improves the user experience of TiDB in such SaaS scenarios.

    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md/#tidb_accelerate_user_creation_update-new-in-v900).
```

* Support pushing down the following functions to TiFlash [#59317](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59317) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1918-->

    * `TRUNCATE()`

  For more information, see [documentation](/tiflash/tiflash-supported-pushdown-calculations.md).

* Support pushing down the following date functions to TiKV [#59365](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59365) @[gengliqi](https://github.com/gengliqi) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1837-->

    * `FROM_UNIXTIME()`
    * `TIMESTAMPDIFF()`
    * `UNIX_TIMESTAMP()`

  For more information, see [documentation](/functions-and-operators/expressions-pushed-down.md).

> 

Author: ```suggestion

### Availability

* TiProxy officially supports the traffic replay feature (GA) [#642](https://github.com/pingcap/tiproxy/issues/642) @[djshow832](https://github.com/djshow832) tw@hfxsd<!--2062-->

    In TiProxy v1.3.0, the traffic replay feature is released as an experimental feature. In TiProxy v1.4.0, the traffic replay feature becomes generally available (GA). TiProxy provides specialized SQL commands for traffic capture and replay. This feature lets you easily capture access traffic from TiDB production clusters and replay it at a specified rate in test clusters, facilitating business validation.
    
    For more information, see [documentation](/tiproxy/tiproxy-traffic-replay.md).

```

### Reliability

> 

Author: ```suggestion
* Introduce a new system variable `MAX_USER_CONNECTIONS` to limit the number of connections that different users can establish [#59203](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59203) @[joccau](https://github.com/joccau) tw@hfxsd<!--2017-->

    Starting from v9.0.0, you can use the `MAX_USER_CONNECTIONS` system variable to limit the number of connections a single user can establish to a single TiDB node. This helps prevent issues where excessive [token](/tidb-configuration-file.md/#token-limit) consumption by one user causes delays in responding to requests from other users.
    
    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md/#max_user_connections-new-in-v900)
```

    Starting from v9.0.0, TiDB records the network traffic generated during SQL processing and distinguishes cross-AZ traffic. TiDB writes this data to the [`statements_summary` table](/statement-summary-tables.md) and [slow query logs](/identify-slow-queries.md). This feature helps you track major data transmission paths within TiDB clusters, analyze the sources of cross-AZ traffic, and better understand and control related costs.

    Note that the current version monitors only SQL query traffic **within the cluster** (between TiDB, TiKV, and TiFlash) and does not include DML or DDL operations. Additionally, the recorded traffic data represents unpacked traffic, which differs from actual physical traffic and  cannot be used directly for network billing.

    For more information, see [documentation](/statement-summary-tables.md#statements_summary-fields-description).

> 

Author: ```suggestion

* Optimize the `execution info` in the output of `EXPLAIN ANALYZE` [#56232](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56232) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87) tw@hfxsd<!--1697-->

    [`EXPLAIN ANALYZE`](https://github.com/sql-statements/sql-statement-explain-analyze.md) executes SQL statements and records execution details in the `execution info` column. The same information is captured in the [slow query log](https://github.com/identify-slow-queries.md). These details are crucial for analyzing and understanding the time spent on SQL execution.

    In v9.0.0, the `execution info` output is optimized for clearer representation of each metric. For example, `time` now refers to the wall-clock time for operator execution, `loops` indicates how many times the current operator is called by its parent operator, and `total_time` represents the sum of all concurrent execution times. These optimizations help you better understand the SQL execution process and devise more targeted optimization strategies.

    For more information, see [documentation](/sql-statements/sql-statement-explain-analyze.md).
```

    <td>Consolidates sync-diff-inspector with other data migration and replication tools (DM and TiCDC) in the <code>tiflow</code> repository. Now available via TiUP and a dedicated Docker image.</td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Feature details

### Scalability

### Performance

* In scenarios with hundreds of thousands to millions of users, the performance of creating and modifying users has improved by 77 times [#55563](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/55563) @[tiancaiamao](https://github.com/tiancaiamao) tw@hfxsd<!--1941-->

    In previous versions, when the number of users in a cluster exceeded 200,000, the QPS for creating and modifying users drops to 1. In certain SaaS environments, if there is a need to create millions of users and periodically update user passwords in bulk, it can take up to 2 days or more, which is unacceptable for some SaaS businesses.

    TiDB v9.0.0 optimizes the performance of these DCL (Data Control Language) operations, allowing 2 million users to be created in just 37 minutes. This greatly enhances the execution performance of DCL statements and improves the user experience of TiDB in such SaaS scenarios.

>     For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md/#tidb_accelerate_user_creation_update-new-in-v900).

Author: ```suggestion
    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md/#tidb_accelerate_user_creation_update-new-in-v900).

```

    For more information, see [user documentation](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md#format_version).

### Availability

* TiProxy officially supports the traffic replay feature (GA) [#642](https://github.com/pingcap/tiproxy/issues/642) @[djshow832](https://github.com/djshow832) tw@hfxsd<!--2062-->

    In TiProxy v1.3.0, the traffic replay feature is released as an experimental feature. In TiProxy v1.4.0, the traffic replay feature becomes generally available (GA). TiProxy provides specialized SQL commands for traffic capture and replay. This feature lets you easily capture access traffic from TiDB production clusters and replay it at a specified rate in test clusters, facilitating business validation.
    
    For more information, see [documentation](/tiproxy/tiproxy-traffic-replay.md).

### Reliability

> * Introduce a new system variable `MAX_USER_CONNECTIONS` to limit the number of connections that different users can establish [#59203](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59203) @[joccau](https://github.com/joccau) tw@hfxsd<!--2017-->

Author: ```suggestion
* Introduce a new system variable `max_user_connections` to limit the number of connections that different users can establish [#59203](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59203) @[joccau](https://github.com/joccau) tw@hfxsd<!--2017-->
```

>     Starting from v9.0.0, you can use the `MAX_USER_CONNECTIONS` system variable to limit the number of connections a single user can establish to a single TiDB node. This helps prevent issues where excessive [token](/tidb-configuration-file.md/#token-limit) consumption by one user causes delays in responding to requests from other users.

Author: ```suggestion
    Starting from v9.0.0, you can use the `max_user_connections` system variable to limit the number of connections a single user can establish to a single TiDB node. This helps prevent issues where excessive [token](/tidb-configuration-file.md/#token-limit) consumption by one user causes delays in responding to requests from other users.
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/sql-statements/sql-statement-explain-analyze.md).

### Security

### Data migration

* Support query argument redaction in DM logs [#11489](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11489) @[db-will] **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--2030-->

    Introduces a new `redact-info-log` parameter, allowing DM to replace sensitive query arguments with `?` placeholders in DM logs. You can enable this feature by setting `redact-info-log = true` in the DM-worker configuration file or passing `--redact-info-log=true` at startup. This change only redacts query arguments (not entire SQL statements) and requires a DM-worker restart to take effect.

    For more information, see [documentation](/dm/dm-worker-configuration-file.md).

> * Ensure TiDB Lightning compatibility with TiDB `sql_require_primary_key=ON` [#57479](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57479) @[lance6716] **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--2026-->
> 
>     When `sql_require_primary_key=ON` is enabled in TiDB, tables must have a primary key. TiDB Lightning now adds a default primary key to its internal error-logging and conflict-detection tables (`conflict_error_v4`, `type_error_v2`, and `conflict_records_v2`), preventing table-creation failures. If you rely on these internal tables for automation, confirm the new naming and schema changes (primary key added), as scripts referencing older table names might need updates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* TiDB Lightning supports compatibility with `sql_require_primary_key=ON` in TiDB [#57479](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57479) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--2026-->

    When you enable the system variable [`sql_require_primary_key`](/system-variables.md#sql_require_primary_key-new-in-v630) in TiDB, tables must have a primary key. To prevent table creation failures, TiDB Lightning adds a default primary key to its internal error-logging and conflict-detection tables (`conflict_error_v4`, `type_error_v2`, and `conflict_records_v2`). If you have automation scripts that use these internal tables, update them to accommodate the new schema, which includes the primary key.
```

    - Binary package: [TiDB Toolkit](/download-ecosystem-tools.md)

  The [`pingcap/tidb-tools`](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-tools) repository is now archived. If you previously installed sync-diff-inspector from `tidb-tools`, switch to TiUP, Docker, or the TiDB Toolkit.

    For more information, see [documentation](/sync-diff-inspector/sync-diff-inspector-overview.md).

## Compatibility changes

> **Note:**
>
> This section provides compatibility changes you need to know when you upgrade from v8.5.0 to the current version (v9.0.0). If you are upgrading from v8.4.0 or earlier versions to the current version, you might also need to check the compatibility changes introduced in intermediate versions.

### Behavior changes

* TiDB Lightning internal error-logging and conflict-detection tables names changed to `conflict_error_v4`, `type_error_v2`, and `conflict_records_v2`, and now have primary keys. If you rely on these internal tables for automation, confirm the new naming and schema changes [#57479](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57479) @[lance6716]

### System variables

| Variable name | Change type | Description |
|--------|------------------------------|------|

> |  |  |  |

Author: ```suggestion
| `txn_scope` | 删除 | 从 v9.0.0 开始，该变量被移除。 |
| [`max_user_connections`](/system-variables.md/#max_user_connections-从-v900-版本开始引入) | 新增 | 用于限制单个用户对单个 TiDB 节点可建立的连接数，避免单个用户消耗过多的 [token](tidb-configuration-file/#token-limit) 导致其他用户提交的请求得不到及时响应的问题 |
| [`tidb_accelerate_user_creation_update`](/system-variables.md/#tidb_accelerate_user_creation_update-从-v900-版本开始引入)| 新增 | 用于在用户数量过多的场景下提升性能 |
| [`tidb_max_dist_task_nodes`](/system-variables.md/#tidb_max_dist_task_nodes-从-v900-版本开始引入)| 新增 | 该变量控制分布式框架任务可使用的最大 TiDB 节点数上限。默认值为 `-1`，表示自动模式。在此模式下，系统将自动选择合适的节点数量。 |
| [`tidb_workload_repository_active_sampling_interval`](/system-variables.md#tidb_workload_repository_active_sampling_interval-从-v900-版本开始引入) | 新增 | 控制 [Workload Repository](/workloadrepo.md) 快速时间快照的间隔。 |
| [`tidb_workload_repository_dest`](/system-variables.md#tidb_workload_repository_dest-从-v900-版本开始引入)| 新增 | 控制 [Workload Repository](/workloadrepo.md) 的写入目标。默认为空，不启用。设置为 `table` 写入 TiKV 。|
| [`tidb_workload_repository_retention_days`](/system-variables.md#tidb_workload_repository_retention_days-从-v900-版本开始引入) | 新增 | 控制 [Workload Repository](/workloadrepo.md) 中数据保存的天数。 |
| [`tidb_workload_repository_snapshot_interval`](/system-variables.md#tidb_workload_repository_snapshot_interval-从-v900-版本开始引入) | 新增 | 控制 [Workload Repository](/workloadrepo.md) 统一快照的时间间隔。 |
```

|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |

### Configuration parameters

| Configuration file or component | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |
| DM | [--redact-info-log](/dm/dm-command-line-flags/#--redact-info-log) | Newly added | Controls whether DM replaces sensitive query arguments with ? placeholders in logs. The default value is false. When set to true, query arguments in DM logs are redacted. This parameter only redacts query arguments (not entire SQL statements), and requires a DM-worker restart to take effect. |

> |  |  |  | |

Author: ```suggestion
| BR | [`--checkpoint-storage`](br/br-checkpoint-restore.md#implementation-details-store-checkpoint-data-in-the-external-storage) | Newly added | Specifies the external storage for BR to store checkpoint data. |
|  |  |  | |
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/partitioned-table.md#global-index).

### Observability

* Add the TiDB Workload Repository feature to support persisting historical workload data into TiKV [#58247](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58247) @[xhebox](https://github.com/xhebox) @[henrybw](https://github.com/henrybw) @[wddevries](https://github.com/wddevries) **tw@lilin90**<!--1953-->

    Many frequently updated workload metrics and status information are maintained in the memory of the instance. Such historical workload data can be persisted as part of the database for the following purposes:

    * **Troubleshooting:** when diagnosing issues, it is necessary to review historical activities and events. Persisted workload data can help you revisit the state changes during a specific time period, identify anomalies, or precisely locate the specific behavior of a database session or SQL statement at a particular moment.

>     * **Automated operations:** database autonomy is an inevitable trend to enhance user experience and lower usage barriers. Achieving automated database tuning requires historical data. Based on persisted historical workload data, TiDB can gradually move towards automated operations, such as Index Advisor, Statistics Advisor, and SQL Binding Advisor.     

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    * **Automation:** database autonomy is an inevitable trend to enhance user experience and lower usage barriers. Achieving automated database tuning requires historical data. Based on persisted historical workload data, TiDB can gradually move towards intelligent recommendations, such as Index Advisor, Statistics Advisor, and SQL Binding Advisor.     
```

>   In v9.0.0, you can enable the Workload Repository by setting the [`tidb_workload_repository_dest`](/system-variables.md#tidb_workload_repository_dest-new-in-v900) system variable. TiDB continuously writes snapshots of certain in-memory tables into the `workload_schema`, persisting them in TiKV. This feature is disabled by default. By persisting historical workload data, TiDB can better facilitate troubleshooting and optimization recommendations. In the future, a series of automated tools based on historical workload data will be introduced to enhance the user experience in database operations and diagnostics. The persisted in-memory tables are categorized into two types:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  In v9.0.0, you can enable the Workload Repository by setting the [`tidb_workload_repository_dest`](/system-variables.md#tidb_workload_repository_dest-new-in-v900) system variable. TiDB continuously writes snapshots of certain memory tables into the `workload_schema`, persisting them in TiKV. This feature is disabled by default. By persisting historical workload data, TiDB can better facilitate troubleshooting and recommendations. In the future, a series of automated tools based on historical workload data will be introduced to enhance the user experience in database operations and diagnostics. The persisted memory tables are categorized into two types:
```

    - **In-memory tables storing cumulative metrics**: these tables are larger in size, and their snapshots and storage costs are relatively high. Snapshots are taken in batches based on the [`tidb_workload_repository_snapshot_interval`](/system-variables.md#tidb_workload_repository_snapshot_interval-new-in-v900) setting, with a minimum interval of 15 minutes. By comparing the changes between any two snapshots, you can calculate the incremental metrics over a specific period. These tables include:

        - [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TIDB_INDEX_USAGE`](/information-schema/information-schema-tidb-index-usage.md)
        - [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TIDB_STATEMENTS_STATS`](/statement-summary-tables.md) (Derived from `STATEMENTS_SUMMARY`, planned to replace it in the future.)
        - [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.CLIENT_ERRORS_SUMMARY_BY_HOST`](/information-schema/client-errors-summary-by-host.md)
        - [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.CLIENT_ERRORS_SUMMARY_BY_USER`](/information-schema/client-errors-summary-by-user.md)
        - [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.CLIENT_ERRORS_SUMMARY_GLOBAL`](/information-schema/client-errors-summary-global.md)

>     - **In-memory tables storing real-time states**: these tables are refreshed frequently and are usually smaller in size. Snapshots with very short intervals are necessary for them to be effective. You can specify the interval using the [`tidb_workload_repository_active_sampling_interval`](/system-variables.md#tidb_workload_repository_active_sampling_interval-new-in-v900) system variable, which defaults to 5 seconds. Setting it to `0` disables snapshots for this type of table. These tables include:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - **Memory tables storing real-time states**: these tables are updated frequently and are usually smaller in size. Snapshots with very short intervals are necessary for them to be effective. You can specify the interval using the [`tidb_workload_repository_active_sampling_interval`](/system-variables.md#tidb_workload_repository_active_sampling_interval-new-in-v900) system variable, which defaults to 5 seconds. Setting it to `0` disables snapshots for this type of tables. These tables include:
```

    Note that the current version monitors only SQL query traffic **within the cluster** (between TiDB, TiKV, and TiFlash) and does not include DML or DDL operations. Additionally, the recorded traffic data represents unpacked traffic, which differs from actual physical traffic and  cannot be used directly for network billing.

    For more information, see [documentation](/statement-summary-tables.md#statements_summary-fields-description).

* Optimize the `execution info` in the output of `EXPLAIN ANALYZE` [#56232](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56232) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87) tw@hfxsd<!--1697-->

    [`EXPLAIN ANALYZE`](https://github.com/sql-statements/sql-statement-explain-analyze.md) executes SQL statements and records execution details in the `execution info` column. The same information is captured in the [slow query log](https://github.com/identify-slow-queries.md). These details are crucial for analyzing and understanding the time spent on SQL execution.

>     In v9.0.0, the `execution info` output is optimized for clearer representation of each metric. For example, `time` now refers to the wall-clock time for operator execution, `loops` indicates how many times the current operator is called by its parent operator, and `total_time` represents the sum of all concurrent execution times. These optimizations help you better understand the SQL execution process and devise more targeted optimization strategies.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    In v9.0.0, the `execution info` output is optimized for clearer representation of each metric. For example, `time` now refers to the wall-clock time for operator execution, `loops` indicates how many times the current operator is called by its parent operator, and `total_time` represents the cumulative duration of all concurrent executions. These optimizations help you better understand the SQL execution process and devise more targeted optimization strategies.
```

| [`tidb_workload_repository_snapshot_interval`](/system-variables.md#tidb_workload_repository_snapshot_interval-new-in-v900) | Newly added | Controls the sampling interval for the [Workload Repository](/workloadrepo.md)'s Snapshot Sampling Process. |
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |

### Configuration parameters

| Configuration file or component | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |
| DM | [--redact-info-log](/dm/dm-command-line-flags/#--redact-info-log) | Newly added | Controls whether DM replaces sensitive query arguments with ? placeholders in logs. The default value is false. When set to true, query arguments in DM logs are redacted. This parameter only redacts query arguments (not entire SQL statements), and requires a DM-worker restart to take effect. |
| BR | [`--checkpoint-storage`](br/br-checkpoint-restore.md#implementation-details-store-checkpoint-data-in-the-external-storage) | Newly added | Specifies the external storage for BR to store checkpoint data. |

> |  |  |  | |

Author: ```suggestion
| TiProxy | [`enable-traffic-replay`](/tiproxy/tiproxy-configuration.md#enable-traffic-replay)  | Newly added | Specifies whether to enable [traffic replay](/tiproxy/tiproxy-traffic-replay.md). If it is set to `false`, traffic capture and replay operations will result in errors. |
| TiProxy | [`encryption-key-path`](/tiproxy/tiproxy-configuration.md#encryption-key-path)  | Newly added | Specifies the file path of the key used to encrypt the traffic files during traffic capture. |
|  |  |  | |
```

    Starting from v9.0.0, you can use the `max_user_connections` system variable to limit the number of connections a single user can establish to a single TiDB node. This helps prevent issues where excessive [token](/tidb-configuration-file.md/#token-limit) consumption by one user causes delays in responding to requests from other users.
    
    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md/#max_user_connections-new-in-v900)

### SQL

* Support creating global indexes on non-unique columns of partitioned tables [#58650](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58650) @[Defined2014](https://github.com/Defined2014) @[mjonss](https://github.com/mjonss) **tw@qiancai**<!--2057-->

    Starting from v8.3.0, you can create global indexes on unique columns of partitioned tables in TiDB to improve query performance. However, creating global indexes on non-unique columns was not supported. Starting from v9.0.0, TiDB removes this restriction, enabling you to create global indexes on non-unique columns of partitioned tables, enhancing the usability of global indexes.

    For more information, see [documentation](/partitioned-table.md#global-index).

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

### DB operations

* TiDB Index Advisor [#12303](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/12303) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--2081-->

    Index design is essential for database performance optimization. Starting from v8.5.0, TiDB introduces the Index Advisor feature and continues to improve and enhance it. This feature analyzes high-frequency query patterns, recommends optimal indexing strategies, helps you tune performance more efficiently, and lowers the barrier to entry.

    You can use the [`RECOMMEND INDEX`](/index-advisor.md#recommend-indexes-using-the-recommend-index-statement) SQL statement to generate index recommendations for a single query or automatically analyze high-frequency SQL statements from historical workloads for batch recommendations. The recommendation results are stored in the `mysql.index_advisor_results` table. You can query this table to view the recommended indexes.

    For more information, see [documentation](/index-advisor.md).

```

| [`pd_enable_follower_handle_region`](/system-variables.md#pd_enable_follower_handle_region-new-in-v760) | Newly added | Changes the default value from `OFF` to `ON`. When it is `ON`, TiDB evenly distributes Region information requests to all PD servers, so PD followers can also handle Region requests, reducing the CPU pressure on the PD leader. Starting from v9.0.0, Region information requests from TiDB Lightning are also evenly sent to all PD nodes when the value is `ON`. |
| [`tidb_pipelined_dml_resource_policy`](/system-variables.md#tidb_pipelined_dml_resource_policy-new-in-v900) | Newly added | Controls the resource usage policy for [Pipelined DML](/pipelined-dml.md). It takes effect only when [`tidb_dml_type`](/system-variables.md#tidb_dml_type-new-in-v800) is set to `bulk`. |
| [`tidb_accelerate_user_creation_update`](/system-variables.md/#tidb_accelerate_user_creation_update-new-in-v900)| Newly added | Improves the performance of creating and modifying users in scenarios with hundreds of thousands to millions of users. |

> | [`tidb_max_dist_task_nodes`](/system-variables.md/#tidb_max_dist_task_nodes-new-in-v900)| Newly added | Controls the maximum number of TiDB nodes available for distributed framework tasks. The default value is `-1`, which enables automatic mode. In this mode, the system automatically selects an appropriate number of nodes. |

Author: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_max_dist_task_nodes`](/system-variables.md/#tidb_max_dist_task_nodes-new-in-v900)| Newly added | Controls the maximum number of TiDB nodes available for the Distributed eXecution Framework (DXF) tasks. The default value is `-1`, which enables automatic mode. In this mode, the system automatically selects an appropriate number of nodes. |
```

* Optimize the `execution info` in the output of `EXPLAIN ANALYZE` [#56232](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56232) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87) tw@hfxsd<!--1697-->

    [`EXPLAIN ANALYZE`](https://github.com/sql-statements/sql-statement-explain-analyze.md) executes SQL statements and records execution details in the `execution info` column. The same information is captured in the [slow query log](https://github.com/identify-slow-queries.md). These details are crucial for analyzing and understanding the time spent on SQL execution.

    In v9.0.0, the `execution info` output is optimized for clearer representation of each metric. For example, `time` now refers to the wall-clock time for operator execution, `loops` indicates how many times the current operator is called by its parent operator, and `total_time` represents the cumulative duration of all concurrent executions. These optimizations help you better understand the SQL execution process and devise more targeted optimization strategies.

    For more information, see [documentation](/sql-statements/sql-statement-explain-analyze.md).

### Security

### Data migration

> * Support query argument redaction in DM logs [#11489](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11489) @[db-will] **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--2030-->
> 
>     Introduces a new `redact-info-log` parameter, allowing DM to replace sensitive query arguments with `?` placeholders in DM logs. You can enable this feature by setting `redact-info-log = true` in the DM-worker configuration file or passing `--redact-info-log=true` at startup. This change only redacts query arguments (not entire SQL statements) and requires a DM-worker restart to take effect.
> 
>     For more information, see [documentation](/dm/dm-worker-configuration-file.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Support query argument redaction in DM logs [#11489](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11489) @[db-will](https://github.com/db-will) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--2030-->

    Starting from v9.0.0, you can use the `redact-info-log` configuration item to enable the DM log redaction feature. When enabled, query arguments that contain sensitive data in DM logs are replaced with the `?` placeholder. To enable this feature, set `redact-info-log` to `true` in the DM-worker configuration file or pass `--redact-info-log=true` when starting DM. This feature only desensitizes query arguments, not the entire SQL statement, and requires a DM-worker restart to take effect.

    For more information, see [documentation](/dm/dm-worker-configuration-file.md#redact-info-log-new-in-v900).
```

---
title: TiDB 9.0.0 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 9.0.0.
---

# TiDB 9.0.0 Release Notes

<EmailSubscriptionWrapper />

Release date: xx xx, 2025

TiDB version: 9.0.0

> Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/production-deployment-using-tiup)

Author: ```suggestion
Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v9.0/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v9.0/production-deployment-using-tiup)
```

    TiDB v9.0.0 optimizes the performance of these DCL (Data Control Language) operations, allowing 2 million users to be created in just 37 minutes. This greatly enhances the execution performance of DCL statements and improves the user experience of TiDB in such SaaS scenarios.

    For more information, see [documentation](/system-variables.md/#tidb_accelerate_user_creation_update-new-in-v900).

* Support pushing down the following function to TiFlash [#59317](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59317) @[guo-shaoge](https://github.com/guo-shaoge) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1918-->

    * `TRUNCATE()`

  For more information, see [documentation](/tiflash/tiflash-supported-pushdown-calculations.md).

* Support pushing down window functions that contain the following aggregation functions to TiFlash [#7376](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/7376) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008) **tw@qiancai**<!--1382-->

>     * `MAX`
>     * `MIN`
>     * `COUNT`
>     * `SUM`
>     * `AVG`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * `MAX()`
    * `MIN()`
    * `COUNT()`
    * `SUM()`
    * `AVG()`
```

  For more information, see [documentation](/functions-and-operators/expressions-pushed-down.md).

* TiFlash supports a new storage format to improve the scanning efficiency of string data [#9673](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/9673) @[JinheLin](https://github.com/JinheLin) **tw@qiancai**<!--2066-->

    Before v9.0.0, TiFlash stores string data in a format that requires to read each row individually when scanning the data, which is inefficient for short strings. In v9.0.0, TiFlash introduces a new storage format that optimizes the storage of strings, improving the scanning efficiency of strings shorter than 64 bytes without affecting the storage and scanning performance of other data.

    - For newly deployed TiDB clusters with v9.0.0 or a later version, TiFlash uses the new storage format by default.
    - For TiDB clusters upgraded to v9.0.0 or a later version, it is recommended to read [TiFlash upgrade guide](/tiflash-upgrade-guide.md) before the upgrade.
        - If [`format_version`](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md#format_version) is not specified for TiFlash before the upgrade, TiFlash uses the new storage format by default after the upgrade.

>         - If [`format_version`](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md#format_version) is specified for TiFlash before the upgrade, the value of `format_version` remains unchanged after the upgrade, and TiFlash continues to use the storage format specified by `format_version`. To enable the new storage format in this case, set the `format_version` parameter to `8` in the TiFlash configuration file. After the configuration takes effect, new data written to TiFlash will use the new storage format, while the storage format of existing data will remain unchanged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - If [`format_version`](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md#format_version) is specified for TiFlash before the upgrade, the value of `format_version` remains unchanged after the upgrade, and TiFlash continues to use the storage format specified by `format_version`. To enable the new storage format in this case, set the `format_version` configuration item to `8` in the TiFlash configuration file. After the configuration takes effect, new data written to TiFlash will use the new storage format, while the storage format of existing data will remain unchanged.
```

>     For more information, see [user documentation](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md#format_version).

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
  For more information, see [user documentation](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md#format_version).
```

### Availability

* TiProxy officially supports the traffic replay feature (GA) [#642](https://github.com/pingcap/tiproxy/issues/642) @[djshow832](https://github.com/djshow832) tw@hfxsd<!--2062-->

    In TiProxy v1.3.0, the traffic replay feature is released as an experimental feature. In TiProxy v1.4.0, the traffic replay feature becomes generally available (GA). TiProxy provides specialized SQL commands for traffic capture and replay. This feature lets you easily capture access traffic from TiDB production clusters and replay it at a specified rate in test clusters, facilitating business validation.
    
    For more information, see [documentation](/tiproxy/tiproxy-traffic-replay.md).

### Reliability

* Introduce a new system variable `max_user_connections` to limit the number of connections that different users can establish [#59203](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59203) @[joccau](https://github.com/joccau) tw@hfxsd<!--2017-->

>     Starting from v9.0.0, you can use the `max_user_connections` system variable to limit the number of connections a single user can establish to a single TiDB node. This helps prevent issues where excessive [token](/tidb-configuration-file.md/#token-limit) consumption by one user causes delays in responding to requests from other users.

Author: ```suggestion
    Starting from v9.0.0, you can use the `max_user_connections` system variable to limit the number of connections a single user can establish to a single TiDB node. This helps prevent issues where excessive [token](/tidb-configuration-file.md#token-limit) consumption by one user causes delays in responding to requests from other users.
```

        - [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.PROCESSLIST`](/information-schema/information-schema-processlist.md)
        - [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.DATA_LOCK_WAITS`](/information-schema/information-schema-data-lock-waits.md)
        - [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TIDB_TRX`](/information-schema/information-schema-tidb-trx.md)
        - [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.MEMORY_USAGE`](/information-schema/information-schema-memory-usage.md)
        - [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.DEADLOCKS`](/information-schema/information-schema-deadlocks.md)

  Data in the Workload Repository is automatically cleaned up, with a default retention period of 7 days. You can modify the retention period by setting the [`tidb_workload_repository_retention_days`](/system-variables.md#tidb_workload_repository_retention_days-new-in-v900) system variable.

>       For more information, see [documentation](/workloadrepo.md).

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
      For more information, see [documentation](/workload-repository.md).
```

    Starting from v9.0.0, TiDB records the network traffic generated during SQL processing and distinguishes cross-AZ traffic. TiDB writes this data to the [`statements_summary` table](/statement-summary-tables.md) and [slow query logs](/identify-slow-queries.md). This feature helps you track major data transmission paths within TiDB clusters, analyze the sources of cross-AZ traffic, and better understand and control related costs.

    Note that the current version includes only **query** traffic **within the cluster** (between TiDB, TiKV, and TiFlash) and does not include traffic caused by DML or DDL operations. Additionally, the recorded traffic data reflects unpacked bytes rather than the actual physical bytes transmitted, so it cannot be used for billing purposes.

    For more information, see [documentation](/statement-summary-tables.md#statements_summary-fields-description).

* Optimize the `execution info` in the output of `EXPLAIN ANALYZE` [#56232](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56232) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87) tw@hfxsd<!--1697-->

>     [`EXPLAIN ANALYZE`](https://github.com/sql-statements/sql-statement-explain-analyze.md) executes SQL statements and records execution details in the `execution info` column. The same information is captured in the [slow query log](https://github.com/identify-slow-queries.md). These details are crucial for analyzing and understanding the time spent on SQL execution.

Author: ```suggestion
    [`EXPLAIN ANALYZE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-explain-analyze.md) executes SQL statements and records execution details in the `execution info` column. The same information is captured in the [slow query log](/identify-slow-queries.md). These details are crucial for analyzing and understanding the time spent on SQL execution.
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/sql-statements/sql-statement-explain-analyze.md).

### Security

### Data migration

* Support query argument redaction in DM logs [#11489](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11489) @[db-will](https://github.com/db-will) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--2030-->

    Starting from v9.0.0, you can use the `redact-info-log` configuration item to enable the DM log redaction feature. When enabled, query arguments that contain sensitive data in DM logs are replaced with the `?` placeholder. To enable this feature, set `redact-info-log` to `true` in the DM-worker configuration file or pass `--redact-info-log=true` when starting DM. This feature only desensitizes query arguments, not the entire SQL statement, and requires a DM-worker restart to take effect.

    For more information, see [documentation](/dm/dm-worker-configuration-file.md#redact-info-log-new-in-v900).

* TiDB Lightning supports compatibility with `sql_require_primary_key=ON` in TiDB [#57479](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57479) @[lance6716](https://github.com/lance6716) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--2026-->

>     When you enable the system variable [`sql_require_primary_key`](/system-variables.md#sql_require_primary_key-new-in-v630) in TiDB, tables must have a primary key. To prevent table creation failures, TiDB Lightning adds a default primary key to its internal error-logging and conflict-detection tables (`conflict_error_v4`, `type_error_v2`, and `conflict_records_v2`). If you have automation scripts that use these internal tables, update them to accommodate the new schema, which includes the primary key.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    When the system variable [`sql_require_primary_key`](/system-variables.md#sql_require_primary_key-new-in-v630) is enabled in TiDB, tables are required to have a primary key. To avoid table creation failures, TiDB Lightning adds a default primary key to its internal error-logging and conflict-detection tables (`conflict_error_v4`, `type_error_v2`, and `conflict_records_v2`). If you have automation scripts that depend on these internal tables, update them to accommodate the new schema, which now includes a primary key.
```

* Migrate sync-diff-inspector from `pingcap/tidb-tools` to `pingcap/tiflow` repository [#11672](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11672) @[joechenrh](https://github.com/joechenrh) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--2070-->

>     Starting from v9.0.0, the sync-diff-inspector tool is moved from the [`pingcap/tidb-tools`](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-tools) repository to [`pingcap/tiflow`](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow). This change unifies replication and migration tools ([DM](/dm/dm-overview.md), [TiCDC](/ticdc/ticdc-overview.md), and [sync-diff-inspector](/sync-diff-inspector/sync-diff-inspector-overview.md)) into a single repository.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    Starting from v9.0.0, the sync-diff-inspector tool is moved from the [`pingcap/tidb-tools`](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-tools) repository to [`pingcap/tiflow`](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow). With this change, sync-diff-inspector is now maintained in the same repository as [DM](/dm/dm-overview.md) and [TiCDC](/ticdc/ticdc-overview.md), which unifies the management of these replication and migration tools.

Reviewer 6: reason: "This change unifies replication and migration tools ([DM](/dm/dm-overview.md), [TiCDC](/ticdc/ticdc-overview.md), and [sync-diff-inspector](/sync-diff-inspector/sync-diff-inspector-overview.md)) into a single repository." is confusing, which might the misunderstanding that the repository of DM of TiCDC is changed in v9.0.0 too

| [`tidb_pipelined_dml_resource_policy`](/system-variables.md#tidb_pipelined_dml_resource_policy-new-in-v900) | Newly added | Controls the resource usage policy for [Pipelined DML](/pipelined-dml.md). It takes effect only when [`tidb_dml_type`](/system-variables.md#tidb_dml_type-new-in-v800) is set to `bulk`. |
| [`tidb_accelerate_user_creation_update`](/system-variables.md/#tidb_accelerate_user_creation_update-new-in-v900)| Newly added | Improves the performance of creating and modifying users in scenarios with hundreds of thousands to millions of users. |
| [`tidb_max_dist_task_nodes`](/system-variables.md/#tidb_max_dist_task_nodes-new-in-v900)| Newly added | Controls the maximum number of TiDB nodes available for the Distributed eXecution Framework (DXF) tasks. The default value is `-1`, which enables automatic mode. In this mode, the system automatically selects an appropriate number of nodes. |

> | [`tidb_workload_repository_active_sampling_interval`](/system-variables.md#tidb_workload_repository_active_sampling_interval-new-in-v900) | Newly added | Controls the sampling interval for the [Workload Repository](/workloadrepo.md)'s Time-based Sampling Process. |
> | [`tidb_workload_repository_dest`](/system-variables.md#tidb_workload_repository_dest-new-in-v900)| Newly added | Controls the destination of the [Workload Repository](/workloadrepo.md. The default value is `''`, which means to disable the workload repository. The value `'table'` enables the workload repository to write data into TiKV.| 
> | [`tidb_workload_repository_retention_days`](/system-variables.md#tidb_workload_repository_retention_days-new-in-v900) | Newly added | Controls the number of days that [Workload Repository](/workloadrepo.md) data is retained. |
> | [`tidb_workload_repository_snapshot_interval`](/system-variables.md#tidb_workload_repository_snapshot_interval-new-in-v900) | Newly added | Controls the sampling interval for the [Workload Repository](/workloadrepo.md)'s Snapshot Sampling Process. |

Author: ```suggestion
| [`tidb_workload_repository_active_sampling_interval`](/system-variables.md#tidb_workload_repository_active_sampling_interval-new-in-v900) | Newly added | Controls the sampling interval for the [Workload Repository](/workload-repository.md)'s Time-based Sampling Process. |
| [`tidb_workload_repository_dest`](/system-variables.md#tidb_workload_repository_dest-new-in-v900)| Newly added | Controls the destination of the [Workload Repository](/workload-repository.md. The default value is `''`, which means to disable the workload repository. The value `'table'` enables the workload repository to write data into TiKV.| 
| [`tidb_workload_repository_retention_days`](/system-variables.md#tidb_workload_repository_retention_days-new-in-v900) | Newly added | Controls the number of days that [Workload Repository](/workload-repository.md) data is retained. |
| [`tidb_workload_repository_snapshot_interval`](/system-variables.md#tidb_workload_repository_snapshot_interval-new-in-v900) | Newly added | Controls the sampling interval for the [Workload Repository](/workload-repository.md)'s Snapshot Sampling Process. |
```

---
title: TiDB 9.0.0 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 9.0.0.
---

# TiDB 9.0.0 Release Notes

<EmailSubscriptionWrapper />

Release date: xx xx, 2025

TiDB version: 9.0.0

<!--

> 2052Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v9.0/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v9.0/production-deployment-using-tiup)

Author: ```suggestion
Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v9.0/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v9.0/production-deployment-using-tiup)
```

-->

9.0.0 introduces the following key features and improvements:

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Category</th>
    <th>Feature/Enhancement</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="2">Scalability and Performance</td>

>     <td>[The microservice mode](/pd-microservices.md) supported by PD is generally available (GA) (introduced in v8.0.0)</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/dev/pd-microservices/">The microservice mode</a> supported by PD is generally available (GA) (introduced in v8.0.0)</td>
```

>     <td>a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/pd-microservices/">The microservice mode</a> supported by PD is generally available (GA) (introduced in v8.0.0)</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/pd-microservices/">The microservice mode</a> supported by PD is generally available (GA) (introduced in v8.0.0)</td>
```

    <td>The PD microservice mode decouples different functional modules of PD into independent services, improving system scalability, stability, and deployment flexibility. It provides a more robust architectural foundation for large-scale cluster deployments.</td>
  </tr>
    <tr>
    <td>Point-in-time recovery (PITR) supports recovery from <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/br-compact-log-backup/">compacted log backups</a> for faster restores tw@lilin90</td>
    <td>Starting from v9.0.0, the log backup feature provides offline compaction capabilities, converting unstructured log backup data into structured SST files. These SST files can now be restored into the cluster much more quickly than reapplying the original logs, resulting in improved recovery performance.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="1">Reliability and availability</td>

>     <td>TiProxy traffic replay feature is generally available (GA) (introduced in v8.4.0)</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td><a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/dev/tiproxy-traffic-replay/">The TiProxy traffic replay feature</a> is generally available (GA) (introduced in v8.4.0)</td>
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/sql-statements/sql-statement-explain-analyze.md).

### Security

### Data migration

* TiCDC introduces a new architecture for improved performance, scalability, and stability (experimental) [#442](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/442) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96) **tw@qiancai** <!--2027-->

    In v9.0.0, TiCDC introduces a new architecture (experimental) that improves real-time data replication performance, scalability, and stability while reducing resource costs. This new architecture redesigns TiCDC core components and optimizes its data processing workflows.

    With this new architecture, TiCDC can now scale its replication capability nearly linearly and replicate millions of tables with lower resource costs. Changefeed latency is reduced and performance is more stable in scenarios with high traffic, frequent DDL operations, and during cluster scaling events.

>     <!--For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-new-arch.md).-->

Author: ```suggestion
<!--
    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-new-arch.md).
-->
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-manage-changefeed.md#security-mechanism).

* Support query argument redaction in Data Migration (DM) logs [#11489](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11489) @[db-will](https://github.com/db-will) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--2030-->

    Starting from v9.0.0, you can use the `redact-info-log` configuration item to enable the DM log redaction feature. When enabled, query arguments that contain sensitive data in DM logs are replaced with the `?` placeholder. To enable this feature, set `redact-info-log` to `true` in the DM-worker configuration file or pass `--redact-info-log=true` when starting DM. This feature only redacts query arguments, not the entire SQL statement, and requires a DM-worker restart to take effect.

>     <!--For more information, see [documentation](/dm/dm-worker-configuration-file.md#redact-info-log-new-in-v900).-->

Author: ```suggestion
<!--
    For more information, see [documentation](/dm/dm-worker-configuration-file.md#redact-info-log-new-in-v900).
-->
```

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Data Migration</td>
    <td>Support query argument redaction in DM logs</td>
    <td>Introduces an optional <code>redact-info-log</code> parameter to mask query arguments in DM logs, preventing sensitive data from appearing in logs.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Data Migration</td>
    <td>Ensure Lightning compatibility with TiDB <code>sql_require_primary_key=ON</code></td>
    <td>Ensures the internal error-logging tables have primary keys if <code>sql_require_primary_key=ON</code> is enabled in TiDB, avoiding creation failures during data imports.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Data Migration</td>
    <td>Migrated sync-diff-inspector from <code>tidb-tools</code> to <code>tiflow</code> repository</td>
    <td>Consolidates sync-diff-inspector with other data migration and replication tools (DM and TiCDC) in the <code>tiflow</code> repository. Now available via TiUP and a dedicated Docker image.</td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## Feature details

### Scalability

* PD supports the microservice mode (GA) [#5766](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/5766) @[binshi-bing](https://github.com/binshi-bing) tw@hfxsd <!--2052-->

>     Starting from v9.0.0, the PD microservice mode is now Generally Available. This mode splits the timestamp allocation and cluster scheduling functions of PD into separate microservices that can be deployed independently, thereby enhancing performance scalability for PD and addressing performance bottlenecks of PD in large-scale clusters.

Author: ```suggestion
    In v8.0.0, the PD microservice mode is released as an experimental feature. Starting from v9.0.0, the PD microservice mode is now Generally Available. This mode splits the timestamp allocation and cluster scheduling functions of PD into separate microservices that can be deployed independently, thereby enhancing performance scalability for PD and addressing performance bottlenecks of PD in large-scale clusters.
```

>     In v8.0.0, the PD microservice mode is released as an experimental feature. Starting from v9.0.0, the PD microservice mode is now Generally Available. This mode splits the timestamp allocation and cluster scheduling functions of PD into separate microservices that can be deployed independently, thereby enhancing performance scalability for PD and addressing performance bottlenecks of PD in large-scale clusters.

Author: ```suggestion
    In v8.0.0, the PD microservice mode is released as an experimental feature. Starting from v9.0.0, the PD microservice mode is generally available. This mode splits the timestamp allocation and cluster scheduling functions of PD into separate microservices that can be deployed independently, thereby enhancing performance scalability for PD and addressing performance bottlenecks of PD in large-scale clusters.
```

    - For newly deployed TiDB clusters with v9.0.0 or a later version, TiFlash uses the new storage format by default.
    - For TiDB clusters upgraded to v9.0.0 or a later version, it is recommended to read [TiFlash upgrade guide](/tiflash-upgrade-guide.md) before the upgrade.
        - If [`format_version`](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md#format_version) is not specified for TiFlash before the upgrade, TiFlash uses the new storage format by default after the upgrade.
        - If [`format_version`](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md#format_version) is specified for TiFlash before the upgrade, the value of `format_version` remains unchanged after the upgrade, and TiFlash continues to use the storage format specified by `format_version`. To enable the new storage format in this case, set the `format_version` configuration item to `8` in the TiFlash configuration file. After the configuration takes effect, new data written to TiFlash will use the new storage format, while the storage format of existing data will remain unchanged.

  For more information, see [user documentation](/tiflash/tiflash-configuration.md#format_version).

> * Point-In-Time-Recovery (PITR) Now Supports Recovery from Compacted Log Backups for Faster Restores [#56522](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56522) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen) **tw@lilin90** <!--2001-->

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
* Point-in-time recovery (PITR) supports recovery from compacted log backups for faster restores [#56522](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56522) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen) **tw@lilin90** <!--2001-->
```

>   Starting from v9.0.0, the compact log backup feature provides offline compaction capabilities, converting unstructured log backup data into structured SST files. This results in the following improvements:

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    Starting from v9.0.0, the compact log backup feature provides offline compaction capabilities, converting unstructured log backup data into structured SST files. This results in the following improvements:
```

>   - SST files can be quickly imported into the cluster, **improving recovery performance**.
>   - Redundant data is removed during compaction, **reducing storage space consumption**.
>   - You can set longer full backup intervals while ensuring the Recovery Time Objective (RTO), **reducing the impact on applications**.
> 
>   For more information, see [documentation](/br/br-compact-log-backup.md).

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    - SST files can be quickly imported into the cluster, **improving recovery performance**.
    - Redundant data is removed during compaction, **reducing storage space consumption**.
    - You can set longer full backup intervals while ensuring the Recovery Time Objective (RTO), **reducing the impact on applications**.

  For more information, see [documentation](/br/br-compact-log-backup.md).
```

* Optimize the `execution info` in the output of `EXPLAIN ANALYZE` [#56232](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56232) @[yibin87](https://github.com/yibin87) tw@hfxsd<!--1697-->

    [`EXPLAIN ANALYZE`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-explain-analyze.md) executes SQL statements and records execution details in the `execution info` column. The same information is captured in the [slow query log](/identify-slow-queries.md). These details are crucial for analyzing and understanding the time spent on SQL execution.

    In v9.0.0, the `execution info` output is optimized for clearer representation of each metric. For example, `time` now refers to the wall-clock time for operator execution, `loops` indicates how many times the current operator is called by its parent operator, and `total_time` represents the cumulative duration of all concurrent executions. These optimizations help you better understand the SQL execution process and devise more targeted optimization strategies.

    For more information, see [documentation](/sql-statements/sql-statement-explain-analyze.md).

### Security

### Data migration

> * TiCDC introduces a new architecture for improved performance, scalability, and stability (experimental) [#442](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/442) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96) **tw@qiancai** <!--2027-->
> 
>     In v9.0.0, TiCDC introduces a new architecture (experimental) that improves real-time data replication performance, scalability, and stability while reducing resource costs. This new architecture redesigns TiCDC core components and optimizes its data processing workflows.
> 
>     With this new architecture, TiCDC can now scale nearly linearly and replicate millions of tables with improved resource utilization. It also reduces changefeed latency and improves performance stability in scenarios with high traffic, frequent DDL operations, and during cluster scaling events.
> 
>     For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-architecture.md).

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* TiCDC introduces a new architecture for improved real-time data replication performance, scalability, and stability (experimental) [#442](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/442) @[CharlesCheung96](https://github.com/CharlesCheung96) **tw@qiancai** <!--2027-->

    In v9.0.0, TiCDC introduces a new architecture (experimental) that improves real-time data replication performance, scalability, and stability while reducing resource costs. This new architecture redesigns TiCDC core components and optimizes its data processing workflows.

    With this new architecture, TiCDC can now scale its replication capability nearly linearly and replicate millions of tables with lower resource costs. Changefeed latency is reduced and performance is more stable in scenarios with high traffic, frequent DDL operations, and during cluster scaling events.

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-architecture.md).
```

* TiCDC Adds DDL and Watermark Event Support to Debezium Protocol [#11566](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/11566) @[wk989898](https://github.com/wk989898) **tw@lilin90** <!--2009-->

>     TiCDC's support for Debezium Style events adds support for DDL and Watermark event types. After an upstream DDL is successfully executed, TiCDC now encodes the DDL event into a Kafka message with the key and message in a Debezium-style format. The Watermark event is a TiCDC extension (generated when [`enable-tidb-extension`](/ticdc/ticdc-sink-to-kafka.md#configure-sink-uri-for-kafka) is set on the Kafka sink) that represents a special time point indicating that the events received before this Watermark are complete.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    TiCDC now supports DDL and WATERMARK event types in Debezium style output. After an upstream DDL operation is successfully executed, TiCDC encodes the DDL event into a Kafka message with the key and message in a Debezium style format. The WATERMARK event, a TiCDC extension (available when [`enable-tidb-extension`](/ticdc/ticdc-sink-to-kafka.md#configure-sink-uri-for-kafka) is enabled in the Kafka sink), represents a special point in time and indicates that the events received before this point are complete.
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/ticdc/ticdc-debezium.md).

> * TiCDC adds safeguards to avoid replicating back to the source TiDB cluster [#12062](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/12062) @[wlwilliamx](https://github.com/wlwilliamx) **tw@qiancai** <!--2063-->

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* TiCDC adds safeguards to avoid replicating back to the same TiDB cluster [#12062](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/12062) @[wlwilliamx](https://github.com/wlwilliamx) **tw@qiancai** <!--2063-->
```

>     TiCDC supports replicating data from a source TiDB cluster to multiple other downstream systems, including other TiDB clusters. In versions before v9.0.0, if TiCDC is misconfigured to use the same TiDB cluster as both the source and the target, it could create a replication loop and cause data consistency issues. Starting from v9.0.0, TiCDC automatically checks whether the source and target TiDB clusters are the same, preventing this misconfiguration issue.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    TiCDC supports replicating data from an upstream TiDB cluster to multiple other downstream systems, including other TiDB clusters. In versions before v9.0.0, if TiCDC is misconfigured to use the same TiDB cluster as both the source and the target, it could create a replication loop and cause data consistency issues. Starting from v9.0.0, TiCDC automatically checks whether the source and target TiDB clusters are the same, preventing this misconfiguration issue.
```

>     TiCDC supports replicating data from an upstream TiDB cluster to multiple other downstream systems, including other TiDB clusters. In versions before v9.0.0, if TiCDC is misconfigured to use the same TiDB cluster as both the source and the target, it could create a replication loop and cause data consistency issues. Starting from v9.0.0, TiCDC automatically checks whether the source and target TiDB clusters are the same, preventing this misconfiguration issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    TiCDC supports replicating data from an upstream TiDB cluster to multiple downstream systems, including other TiDB clusters. In versions before v9.0.0, if TiCDC is misconfigured to use the same TiDB cluster as both the source and the target, it could create a replication loop and cause data consistency issues. Starting from v9.0.0, TiCDC automatically checks whether the source and target TiDB clusters are the same, preventing this misconfiguration issue.
```

---
title: TiDB 9.0.0 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 9.0.0.
---

# TiDB 9.0.0 Release Notes

<EmailSubscriptionWrapper />

Release date: xx xx, 2025

TiDB version: 9.0.0

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v9.0/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v9.0/production-deployment-using-tiup)

9.0.0 introduces the following key features and improvements:

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Category</th>
    <th>Feature/Enhancement</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="2">Scalability and Performance</td>
    <td>[The microservice mode](/pd-microservices.md) supported by PD is generally available (GA) (introduced in v8.0.0)</td>
    <td>The PD microservice mode decouples different functional modules of PD into independent services, improving system scalability, stability, and deployment flexibility. It provides a more robust architectural foundation for large-scale cluster deployments.</td>
  </tr>
    <tr>

>     <td>Point-In-Time-Recovery (PITR) Now Supports Recovery from Compacted Log Backups for Faster Restores</td>

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    <td>Point-in-time recovery (PITR) supports recovery from [compacted log backups](/br/br-compact-log-backup.md) for faster restores</td>
```

>     <td>Point-in-time recovery (PITR) supports recovery from [compacted log backups](/br/br-compact-log-backup.md) for faster restores</td>

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    <td>Point-in-time recovery (PITR) supports recovery from <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/br-compact-log-backup/">compacted log backups</a> for faster restores tw@lilin90</td>
```

>     <td>Starting from v9.0.0, the log backup feature provides offline compaction capabilities, converting unstructured log backup data into structured SST files. These SST files can now recovered into the cluster much more quickly than reapplying the original logs, delivering improved recovery performance.</td>

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    <td>Starting from v9.0.0, the log backup feature provides offline compaction capabilities, converting unstructured log backup data into structured SST files. These SST files can now be restored into the cluster much more quickly than reapplying the original logs, resulting in improved recovery performance.</td>
```

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="1">Reliability and availability</td>
    <td>TiProxy traffic replay feature is generally available (GA) (introduced in v8.4.0)</td>
    <td>Before performing critical operations such as cluster upgrades, migrations, or deployment changes, use TiProxy to capture the real workload from the production TiDB cluster and replay it on the target test cluster. It helps validate performance and ensure the success of the changes.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="3">DB Operations and Observability</td>

>     <td> TiDB Workload Repository </td>

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    <td>Add the TiDB [Workload Repository](/workload-repository.md) feature to support persisting historical workload data into TiKV</td>
```

>     <td>将数据库运行时的历史状态持久化，能够显著提升历史故障和性能问题的诊断效率，帮助用户快速定位并优化问题，同时为健康检查和自动调优提供关键的数据基础。</td>

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    <td>TiDB Workload Repository can persist the historical runtime status of the database, significantly improving the efficiency of diagnosing past failures and performance issues. It helps you quickly identify and resolve problems, while also providing critical data for health checks and automatic tuning.</td>
```

>     <td>Add the TiDB [Workload Repository](/workload-repository.md) feature to support persisting historical workload data into TiKV</td>

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    <td>Add the <a href="https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/workload-repository/">TiDB Workload Repository</a> feature to support persisting historical workload data into TiKV tw@lilin90</td>
```

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>TiDB Index Advisor tw@Oreoxmt</td>

>     <td>TiDB Index Advisor analyzes actual query workloads to intelligently identify missing or redundant indexes. It helps you optimize indexes without requiring deep knowledge of your application. This feature reduces the cost of manual analysis and tuning, and improves query performance and system stability.</td>

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    <td>TiDB Index Advisor analyzes actual query workloads to automatically identify missing or redundant indexes. It helps you optimize indexes without requiring deep knowledge of your application. This feature reduces the cost of manual analysis and tuning, and improves query performance and system stability.</td>
```

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>SQL cross-AZ traffic monitoring tw@Oreoxmt</td>

>     <td>This feature helps you identify cross-availability zone (AZ) network traffic caused by SQL queries in a TiDB cluster. It enables you to analyze traffic sources, optimize deployment architecture, and control cross-AZ data transfer costs in cloud environments. It also improves resource efficiency and cost visibility.</td>

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    <td>This feature helps you identify cross-availability zone (AZ) network traffic caused by SQL queries in a TiDB cluster. It enables you to analyze traffic sources, optimize deployment architecture, and control cross-AZ data transfer costs in cloud environments, thus improving resource efficiency and cost visibility.</td>
```

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="3">Data Migration</td>

>     <td>Support query argument redaction in Data Migration (DM) logs tw@Oreoxmt</td>
>     <td>Introduce the <code>redact-info-log</code> configuration item to support redacting query parameters in DM logs, preventing sensitive data from appearing in logs.</td>

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    <td>Query argument redaction in Data Migration (DM) logs tw@Oreoxmt</td>
    <td>Data Migration (DM) introduces the <code>redact-info-log</code> configuration item to redact query arguments in DM logs, preventing sensitive data from appearing in logs.</td>
```

  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>TiDB Lightning supports compatibility with <code>sql_require_primary_key=ON</code> in TiDB tw@Oreoxmt</td>

>     <td>When the <code>sql_require_primary_key=ON</code> system variable is enabled in TiDB, the internal error log table now includes a primary key to prevent table creation failures during import.</td>

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    <td>When the <code>sql_require_primary_key</code> system variable is enabled in TiDB, TiDB Lightning automatically adds a default primary key to its internal error-logging and conflict-detection tables during data import to prevent table creation failures.</td>
```

---
title: TiDB 9.0.0 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the new features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 9.0.0.
---

# TiDB 9.0.0 Release Notes

<EmailSubscriptionWrapper />

Release date: xx xx, 2025

TiDB version: 9.0.0

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v9.0/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v9.0/production-deployment-using-tiup)

9.0.0 introduces the following key features and improvements:

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Category</th>
    <th>Feature/Enhancement</th>
    <th>Description</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>

>     <td rowspan="3">Scalability and Performance</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td rowspan="2">Scalability and Performance</td>
```

    <td>[The microservice mode](/pd-microservices.md) supported by PD is generally available (GA) (introduced in v8.0.0)</td>
    <td>The PD microservice mode decouples different functional modules of PD into independent services, improving system scalability, stability, and deployment flexibility. It provides a more robust architectural foundation for large-scale cluster deployments.</td>
  </tr>

>     <tr>
>     <td>Disaggregation of PD to improve scalability (General Availability)</td>
>     <td>The Placement Driver (PD) provides multiple critical modules to ensure the normal operation of TiDB clusters. Now Generally Available in v9.0.0, PD's Microservices mode supports deploying the TSO and scheduling modules as independent microservices. This can significantly reduce resource conflicts for these services as the cluster scales. With this architecture, much larger clusters with much larger workloads are now possible.</td>

Author: ```suggestion
```

>   </tr>

Author: ```suggestion

```

    <tr>
    <td>Point-In-Time-Recovery (PITR) Now Supports Recovery from Compacted Log Backups for Faster Restores</td>
    <td>Starting from v9.0.0, the log backup feature provides offline compaction capabilities, converting unstructured log backup data into structured SST files. These SST files can now recovered into the cluster much more quickly than reapplying the original logs, delivering improved recovery performance.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td rowspan="1">Reliability and availability</td>

>     <td>TiProxy 流量捕捉与回放成为正式功能（从 v8.4.0 开始引入）</td>
>     <td>在进行集群升级、迁移或部署变更等重要操作之前，使用 TiProxy 捕获 TiDB 生产集群的真实负载，并在测试的目标集群中重现该工作负载，从而验证性能，确保变更成功。</td>

Author: ```suggestion
    <td>TiProxy traffic replay feature is generally available (GA) (introduced in v8.4.0)</td>
    <td>Before performing critical operations such as cluster upgrades, migrations, or deployment changes, use TiProxy to capture the real workload from the production TiDB cluster and replay it on the target test cluster. It helps validate performance and ensure the success of the changes.</td>
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/partitioned-table.md#global-index).

### DB operations

* TiDB Index Advisor [#12303](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/12303) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--2081-->

    Index design is essential for database performance optimization. Starting from v8.5.0, TiDB introduces the Index Advisor feature and continues to improve and enhance it. This feature analyzes high-frequency query patterns, recommends optimal indexing strategies, helps you tune performance more efficiently, and lowers the barrier to index design.

    You can use the [`RECOMMEND INDEX`](/index-advisor.md#recommend-indexes-using-the-recommend-index-statement) SQL statement to generate index recommendations for a single query or automatically analyze high-frequency SQL statements from historical workloads for batch recommendations. The recommendation results are stored in the `mysql.index_advisor_results` table. You can query this table to view the recommended indexes.

    For more information, see [documentation](/index-advisor.md).

> * Improve log backup compatibility during snapshot restores [#58685](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58685) @[BornChanger](https://github.com/BornChanger) **tw@lilin90** <!--2000-->

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
* Improve the compatibility between ongoing log backup and snapshot restore [#58685](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58685) @[BornChanger](https://github.com/BornChanger) **tw@lilin90** <!--2000-->
```
